# Problem Statement

Suppose that you want to design an experiment to study the proportion of unpopped kernels of popcorn. Complete steps 1-3 of the guidelines for designing experiments in Section 1.4. Are there any major sources of variation that would be difficult to control?

# Answer

The objective of the experiment is to determine the parameters that effect a single response variable: the proportion of unpopped kernels of popcorn.
This may be quantified by counting the number of unpopped kernels left over after attempting to pop a known number of kernels.
As such miscounting and subjectivity of partially popped kernels are the only variability in measurements.
The distinction between partially popped and unpopped kernels being a fairly clear observation, it is not of concern in this experiment.
Miscounting may be mitigated by repeated measurements.

Potential design factors include:

* method of heating
  * pot on range
  * microwave
  * air popper
* heating rate
  * gas vs. electric range
  * power of microwave
* quantity/quality of oil
* target temperature
* batch size of popcorn
* duration of heating


Nuisance factors include:

* Controllable
  * ambient temperature
  * type of corn
  * source of corn
  * batch of corn
* Noise Factor
  * inconsistent heating rate
  * inconsistent heating distribution

Overall, there is little to this experiment that would be difficult to control.
That being said, the most difficult would likely be ensuring a consistent heating distribution, depending on the heating method.
This may be mitigated by using a more consistent heating method (hot air popper) and smaller batch sizes (could be single kernel dropped into hot air blast).