# 9.1 Hmwk Two Sample Hypothesis Testing (Homework)

## Problem 1

Who studies more, college freshmen or college seniors? Some argue that as freshmen, students are more worried about their education and spend much more time in the library preparing
than upperclassmen. Others argue that by the senior year, classes are much more advanced and challenging and require many more hours of preparation than the introductory classes they
took as freshmen.
Given the following hypotheses, what is the appropriate definition of $\mu_{f}$?
$$
\begin{array}{l}H_{0}: \mu_{f}-\mu_{s}=0 \\ H_{a}: \mu_{f}-\mu_{s} \neq 0\end{array}
$$

---

Mean number of hours spent studying for all freshmen.

---

## Problem 2

Sara is a big hip-hop music fan. Her friend Matt is a big rap music fan. They each have a huge library of songs in their digital music libraries. They each randomly sample 50 songs from their libraries and record the lengths of the songs selected. The average of the selected hip-hop songs was
$\bar{x}_{1}=230$
seconds with a sample standard deviation of 4 seconds. The average of the selected rap songs was
$\bar{x}_{2}=250$
seconds with a sample standard deviation of 6 seconds. They would like to know if the average length of hip-hop songs is the same as the average length of
rap songs.

---

(a) What are the appropriate null and alternative hypotheses for a 2-tailed test?

#### Solution

$H_{0}: \mu_{1}-\mu_{2}=0$
$H_{a}: \mu_{1}-\mu_{2} \neq 0$

---

(b) Calculate the test statistic. (Round your answer to two decimal places.)


#### Solution

$$
\begin{array}{ccc}
\sigma_1 = 4 & \bar{x}_1=230 & n_1=50\\
\sigma_2 = 6 & \bar{x}_2=250 & n_2=50\\
\end{array}
$$

$$
\mu_{1}-\mu_{2}=0
$$

$$
\begin{aligned}
Z&=\frac{\left(\bar{x}_{1}-\bar{x}_{2}\right)-\left(\mu_{1}-\mu_{2}\right)}{\sqrt{\frac{\sigma_{1}^{2}}{n_{1}}+\frac{\sigma_{2}^{2}}{n_{2}}}} \\
\end{aligned}
$$

$$
\begin{aligned}
\therefore Z&= \frac{230-250 - 0}{\sqrt{\frac{4^2}{50} +\frac{6^2}{50}}}\\
& = - \frac{50 \sqrt{26}}{13}\\
&= -19.6116
\end{aligned}
$$

---