# Quiz

## Question 1

Which of the below properties from classical Thermodynamics are considered as
conserved quantities? (choose multiple)

- [ ] exergy
- [x] energy
- [ ] pressure
- [ ] entropy
- [ ] temperature
- [x] mass
- [ ] density

## Question 2

Write the general energy balance for a open, transient (i.e., unsteady) system with thermal energy generation using only the following terms: $\frac{d E_{\mathrm{st}}}{d t}, \dot{E}_{\text {in }}, \dot{E}_{\text {out }},$ and $\dot{E}_{\text {gen}}$.

- [ ] $\frac{d E_{\text {st }}}{d t}=\dot{E}_{\text {in }}+\dot{E}_{\text {out }}+\dot{E}_{\text {gen }}$ 
- [ ] $\frac{d E_{\text {st }}}{d t}=\dot{E}_{\text {in }}+\dot{E}_{\text {out }}-\dot{E}_{\text {gen }}$ 
- [x] $\frac{d E_{\text {st }}}{d t}+\dot{E}_{\text {in }}-\dot{E}_{\text {out }}+\dot{E}_{\text {gen }}$ 
- [ ] $\frac{d E_{\text {st }}}{d t}=\dot{E}_{\text {in }}-\dot{E}_{\text {out }}-\dot{E}_{\text {gen }}$ 
- [ ] $\frac{d E_{\text {st }}}{d t}=\dot{E}_{\text {in }}-\dot{E}_{\text {out }}+\dot{E}_{\text {gen }}$

## Question 3

List the types of systems encountered in heat transfer analyses. (choose multiple)

- [x] open
- [ ] rigid
- [ ] isentropic (**File**: This is a process)
- [x] closed
- [ ] variable
- [ ] submerged

# Heat Transfer Mechanisms (Modes of Heat Transfer)

## Fourier

## Conduction

$$
\begin{aligned}
    \dot{Q}_\mathrm{cond} = -k A_c \frac{dT}{dx}\\
    \text{where:}\\
    k &= \text{Conductivity Coefficient}\\
    A_c &= \text{Cross-sectional Area}\\
\end{aligned}
$$

This $k$ is not the same as gas constant $k$ - thermal conductivity, thermal coefficient.

$A_c$ is cross sectional area - normal to direction of flow of heat transfer.

Heat transfer always occurs in the direction of decreasing temperature.

## Convection 

Newtons law of cooling

$$
\begin{aligned}
    \dot{Q}_\mathrm{conv} &= h A_s \left( T_s - T_\infty \right)\\
    \text{where:}\\
    h &= \text{Convection Coefficient}\\
    A_s &= \text{Surface Area}\\
    T_s &= \text{Surface Temperature}\\
    T_\infty &= \text{Surrounding Temperature}
\end{aligned}
$$

There are no tables for $h$, doesn't just depend on material, surrounding fluid, humidity, etc.
This will be the bear of convection.

## Radiation

Does not need molecules.

$$
\begin{aligned}
    \dot{Q}_\mathrm{rad} &= \epsilon \sigma A_s \left( T_\mathrm{s}^4 - T_\mathrm{surr}^4 \right)\\
    \text{where:}\\
    \epsilon &= \text{Thermal Emissivity}\\
    \sigma &= \text{Constant} = 5.6704 \times 10^{-8} \mathrm{~W} \cdot \mathrm{m}^{-2} \cdot \mathrm{K}^{-4}\\
\end{aligned}
$$

we can rewrite it this way:

$$
\dot{Q}_\mathrm{rad} = h_\text{rad} A_s \left( T_\mathrm{s}^4 - T_\mathrm{surr}^4 \right)
$$
$$
h_\text{rad} \equiv \epsilon \sigma \left( T_\mathrm{s} + T_\mathrm{surr} \right) \left( T_\mathrm{s}^2 + T_\mathrm{surr}^2 \right)
$$
$$
\alpha \dot{Q}_\mathrm{incident} = \dot{Q}_\mathrm{absorbed}
$$

Just like emissivity, $\alpha$ ranges from 0 to 1.

# Worked Example 1

## Prompt

A metal pot ($k=14.5 \frac{\mathrm{W}}{\mathrm{m} \cdot \mathrm{K}}$) with a flat bottom is placed on the burner of a stove.
The bottom part of the plate may be modeled as a flat, circular plate with diameter $d=25.4 \mathrm{~cm}$ and a thickness of $\delta=0.35 \mathrm{~cm}$.
Thermal energy is transferred steadily to the water in the pot through the flat bottom at a rate of $1400 \mathrm{~W}$.
If the inside surface of pot---i.e., the upper side of the flat bottom---is $T_{u}=105^{\circ} \mathrm{C},$ what then is the outside (lower) surface temperature $\left(T_{l}\right)$ of the bottom of the pot?

## Solution

$$
\dot{Q} = - k \cdot A_c \cdot \frac{dT}{dx}
$$

$$
\begin{aligned}
    \frac{dT}{dx} &\approx \frac{\Delta T}{\Delta x}\\
    &= \frac{T_u - T_l}{\delta}
\end{aligned}
$$

for small $\Delta x$ we can do this

We know the area to be $A = \frac{\pi}{4} d^2$

$$
\boxed{T_l = 111.7^\circ \mathrm{C}}
$$

# Example 2

A current of $100 \mathrm{~A}$ is passed through a stainless steel wire ($k=19 \mathrm{~W} / \mathrm{m} \cdot \mathrm{K}$) $3 \mathrm{~mm}$ in diameter.
The resistivity of the steel may be taken as $70 \mu \Omega \cdot \mathrm{cm},$ and the length of the wire is $1 \mathrm{~m}$.
The wire is submerged in a liquid at $50^{\circ} \mathrm{C}$ and experiences a convection heat transfer coefficient of $4 \mathrm{~kW} / \mathrm{m}^{2} \cdot \mathrm{K}$.
If $85 \%$ of the electrical power is steadily converted into heat, what is the surface temperature of the wire.

# Example 3

The Naboo Royal Starship that Queen Padmé Amidala escaped in during the Trade Federation's occupation of Naboo is a spaceship with a unique hull design.
What's unique about it, is the material properties provide for a very reflective surface, an emissivity of $\varepsilon=0.08$, and yet also low absorptivity, $\alpha=0.1$.
While incident radiation is might be high, this aids in keeping the surface temperature low and, thus, minimizes thermal expansion of the hull.
There is incident thermal radiation from a nearby star of $600 \mathrm{~W} / \mathrm{m}^{2}$ while in outer space.
If there is no thermal energy generation, what is the resulting steady-state surface temperature of the ship? Take the temperature of the surround outer space to be $T_{\text{surr}} = 0 \mathrm{~K}$.

