"When employees are dismissed from employment for reasons other than
poor performance, unemployment benefits should replace 100 percent of
their prior earnings while they are searching for a new job." Do you
think this proposal is a good one? Why or why not? If instituted, would
the policy influence how quickly laid-off workers would find new jobs?
What impact would the policy have on the unemployment rate?

# Answer

Giving unemployment benefits to all of those that are between jobs would
create a tendency for people to intentionally take difficult, but high
paying jobs that are known to be short term. For example, tech startups
may pay extremely well, but are prone to failure. To provide pay for
those leaving such a collapsed business is to negate the risk of working
at such a place - a risk that is a significant deterrent ordinarily.
Fraud would become rampant, as employees would arrange to be hired for
an extremely high wage, be subsequently let go, only to kick back a
portion of the government subsidy to those who helped hire them. This is
also not fair to those that choose not to earn high wages for other
reasons such as doing non-profit work, or living in impoverished
communities - they will need unemployment benefits much more than those
that are being given their usual high wage.

Unemployment rates would skyrocket, as employees find ways to be hired
and fired, only to take a two week holiday as they "search" for their
next job. Even those honestly terminated from a job will opt to take as
long as possible to locate a new job. Phantom companies for the sake of
hiring and firing would arise, with dues being paid for the service by
those that choose to participate in the scheme. Without stringent
stipulations, this compensation scheme makes no sense.
