GDP does not count productive services, such as child care, food
preparation, cleaning, and laundry, provided within the household. Why
are these things excluded? Is GDP a sexist measure? Does it understate
the productive contributions of women relative to men? Discuss.

# Answer

The GDP is not a sexist measure, because it does not discriminate by
gender. Should a man do "women's work", it does not make them be counted
any more - neither does a woman doing "men's work" make it count any
less toward the GDP. The GDP is a single measure, and it is not within
it's scope to measure internal work that does not generate revenue.

Firstly, there is no unified way to quantify the value of this work. Is
the wage of the home-working depend on their opportunity cost of not
working a paid job? Should it be fixed for all work? Does it depend on
how hard this work is? For example, by this second measure, women
working in Papua New Guinea would be doing more valuable work than most
men in the US, but by the first measure, their work is of negligible
value (as wages are low). These issues prevent any such metric from
being universally applicable, and so it is easiest to not consider them
at all.

Secondly, the usefulness of any such metric is questionable because it
is not an indication of the value of any such work. Inefficient work
that takes a lot of effort by hand does not yield more value than
efficient work that is done easily using better equipment and machinery.
This is not to make any value judgements concerning the cultural and
social significance of inefficient tasks that preserve tradition and
craftsmanship, only to say that these tasks do not contribute to the GDP
in any meaningful way.
