# Test 1

## Augmented Matrix

Last column is what the matrix is equal to.

Memorize inverse rules.

Write down the matrix that you would use to find the inverse. Section
2.3?

Use rref

Write down the inverse.

Any determinants, use your calculator. Use rref for determinants.

You can use your calculator on everything, just say every step.

# Mathematical Structures and Vector Space

We've been using a "field" for ages, it's a structure.

A mathematical structure means you have a set of elements, operations,
and axioms.

# Vector Spaces

## Vectors in $\mathbb{R}^n$

Note that $\mathbb{R}^n$ means $n$-space.

$$
\begin{aligned}
    \mathbb{R} &= \text{???Line???}\\
    \mathbb{R}^2 &= \text{Plane}\\
    \mathbb{R}^3 &= \text{Space}\\
\end{aligned}
$$

## Vector in $n$-space

You can no longer sketch this.

$$
\vec{x} = \left( x_1, x_2, x_3, \dots, x_n \right)
$$

$$
\vec{y} = \left( y_1, y_2, y_3, \dots, y_n \right)
$$

This author is going to use parentheses to denote these. We may be used
to $\left< x, y, z \right>$

### Vector Addition

$$
\vec{x} + \vec{y} = \left( x_1 +y_1, x_2 + y_2, x_3 + y_3, \dots, x_n + y_n \right)
$$

### Scalar Multiplication

$$
c \cdot \vec{x} = \left( c\cdot x_1, c\cdot x_2, c\cdot x_3, \dots, c\cdot x_n \right)
$$

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Let $\vec{u}$, $\vec{v}$, and $\vec{w}$ be vectors in $n$-space
($\mathbb{R}^n$) and let $c$ and $d$ be scalars.

1.  $\vec{u}+\vec{v}$ is a vector in $\mathbb{R}^n$ (Closure)
2.  $\vec{u}+\vec{v}=\vec{v}+\vec{u}$ (Commutative)
3.  $(\vec{u}+\vec{v})+\vec{w}=\vec{u}_(\vec{v}+\vec{w})$ (Associative)
4.  $\vec{u}+\vec{0}=\vec{u}$ (Additive Identity)
5.  $\vec{u}+(\vec{u})=\vec{0}$ (Additive Inverse)
6.  $c \cdot \vec{u}$ is a vector in $\mathbb{R}^n$ (Closure)
7.  $c \cdot (\vec{u}+\vec{v})=c\cdot \vec{u}+c\cdot \vec{v}$
    (Distributive)
8.  $(c+d)\vec{u} = c\cdot \vec{u}+d\cdot \vec{u}$ (Distributive)
9.  $c (d \vec{u})=(c\cdot d)\vec{u}$ (Associative)
10. $1(\vec{u})=\vec{u}$
