Bring previous notesheets, and textbook. Shouldn't need tables in back
of book,

FE questions (4-5), worked questions (4).

# 4 Tools

We will use them on the exam, you'll keep them in applied thermo, you'll
use at least two of these in heat transfer.

## 1 - Mass Balance

$$
\frac{dm}{dt} = \sum_{i}{\dot{m}_i}-\sum_e{\dot{m}_e}=\dot{M}_\text{net}
$$

## 2 - Energy Balance

$$
\frac{dE}{dt} = \dot{J}_\text{net} + \dot{Q}_\text{net} + \dot{W}_\text{net}
$$

## 3 - Entropy Balance

$$
\frac{dS}{dt} = \dot{S}_\text{net}+\frac{\dot{Q}_\text{net}}{T_b}+\dot{S}_\text{gen}
$$

## 4 - Exergy Balance

$A$ is stored exergy of system, aka. availability Would otherwise be a
script E

$$
\frac{dA}{dt} =
\dot{Y}_\text{net}
+\left( 1-\frac{T_0}{T_b} \right)\dot{Q}_\text{net}
+\dot{W}_\text{net}
+p_0 \frac{dV}{dt}
-T_0\cdot\dot{S}_\text{gen}
$$

$$
\dot{J} = \dot{m}\left( h+\frac{1}{2} V^2 +gz \right) = \dot{m}j
$$

$$
\begin{aligned}
\dot{Y}&=\dot{m}\left[\left( h-h_0 \right) +\frac{1}{2} \left( V^2-V_0^2 \right) + g\left( z-z_0 \right)\right]\\
&=\dot{m}y
\end{aligned}
$$

# Exergetic Efficiency ($2^{\mathrm{nd}}$)

$$
\epsilon,\eta_{\mathrm{II}} = \frac{\text{``Desired''}}{\text{``Required''}}
$$

$$
\eta_\text{II} = \frac{\dot{W}_t}{}
$$

$$
\eta_\text{th} = \frac{\dot{W}_t}{\dot{m}\left( h_i - h_e \right)} \Rightarrow \frac{d\xcancel{E}}{dt} = \dot{J}+\xcancel{\dot{Q}}+\dot{W}
$$

$$
\cancel{\frac{dA}{dt}} = \dot{Y}_\text{net} + \left(1-\frac{T_0}{T_b}\right)\cancel{\dot{Q}}_\text{net}+ + \dot{W}_\text{net}+p_0 \cancel{\frac{dV}{dt}} - \dot{I}
$$

$$
\eta_\text{II} = \frac{\dot{W}_t}{\dot{m}\left(y_i - y_e\right)} = \frac{\dot{W}_t}{\dot{Y}_\text{net}}
$$

$$
\eta_\text{II} = \frac{\dot{W}_\text{net}}{\left(1-\frac{T_0}{T_H}\right)\dot{Q}_H} = \frac{\dot{W}_\text{net}}{\eta_\text{carnot}\cdot\dot{Q}_H}
$$

# Worked Example 22-1

Compare the exergetic efficiency between two common forms of water
heaters: electric and gas. Assume a well insulated container in which
water steadily enters the tank at $T_{i}=20^{\circ} \mathrm{C}$ with a
mass flow rate of $0.7 \mathrm{kg} / \mathrm{s}$ and is heated to
$T_{e}=70^{\circ} \mathrm{C}$ just before exiting. Take the temperature
of the gas flame- i.e., the heat source-to be
$T_{H}=1000^{\circ} \mathrm{C}$ and the ambient conditions as
$T_{0}=25^{\circ} \mathrm{C}$ and $p_{0}=101 \mathrm{kPa},$ and take
$c_{p}=4184.44 \mathrm{J} / \mathrm{kg} \mathrm{K},$ if needed.

## Solution

# Worked Example 22-2

Consider a $3 \mathrm{kW}$ pump raising liquid water initially at
$T_{1}=20^{\circ} \mathrm{C}$ through an insulated pipe to a height of
$25 \mathrm{m}$ above the surface of a large, open storage tank. During
this process the water temperature is increased
$0.1^{\circ} \mathrm{C}$. If there is no appreciable changes in speed or
pressure from the intake to the exit, determine (a) the mass flow rate
(in $\mathrm{kg} / \mathrm{s}),$ (b) the minimum pump power, and (c) the
exergetic efficiency of this process. Take the ambient conditions to be
$T_{0}=20^{\circ} \mathrm{C}$ and $p_{0}=101 \mathrm{kPa}$. Use
$g=9.81 \mathrm{m} / \mathrm{s}^{2}$ and
$c_{p}=4089.3 \mathrm{J} / \mathrm{kg} \mathrm{K},$ as necessary.

## Solution

$$
\begin{aligned}
\cancel{\frac{dE}{dt}} &= \dot{J}_\text{net} + \cancel{\dot{Q}_\text{net}}+\dot{W}_\text{net} \\
0 &= \dot{m}\left(\left( h_i - h_e \right) + g \left( z_i - z_e \right) \right) + \dot{W}_p \\
\dot{m} &= \frac{\dot{W}_p}{c_p\left(T_e - T_i\right)+g\left(z_e - z_i\right)} \approx 4.59 \frac{\text{kg}}{\text{s}} \Leftarrow
\end{aligned}
$$

$$
\cancel{\frac{dA}{dt}} = \dot{Y}_\text{net} + \left( 1- \frac{T_0}{T_b} \right) \dot{Q}_\text{net} + \dot{W}^\text{min} + p_0 \cancel{\frac{dV}{dt}} - \cancel{\dot{I}}
$$

$$
\dot{W}^\text{min} = - \dot{Y}_\text{net} = -\dot{m} \left[ \left( h_i - h_e \right) + g \left( z_i - z_e \right) - T_0 \left( s_i - s_e \right) \right]
$$

$$
s_i - s_e = c_p \operatorname{ln}\left( \frac{T_i}{T_e} \right)
$$

$$
\dot{W}^\text{min} \approx 1.125 \text{kW} \lt 3\text{kW}
$$

Efficiency is 37.5%
