# 2020-11-04

## Quiz

### Question 1

Which of the following statements does not describe the exergy reference
environment? Choose only one.

-   [x] **It is incompressible.**
-   [ ] It is large in extent.
-   [ ] It has a uniform temperature.
-   [ ] It has a uniform pressure.

### Question 2

The following term reduces to zero within the steady-state form of the
closed system exergy rate balance. Choose only one.

-   [ ] The rate of exergy transfer by heat.
-   [x] **The time rate of the change of stored exergy of the system.**
-   [ ] The rate of exergy transfer by work.
-   [ ] The rate of exergy destruction.

### Question 3

Which of the following are true statements about a system at the dead
state? Could be multiple answers.

-   [ ] None of these.
-   [x] **The value of the thermo-mechanical contribution to exergy is
    zero.**
-   [x] **It is in thermal equilibrium with the environment.**
-   [x] **It is in mechanical equilibrium with the environment.**

## Lecture

A new term is sometimes called **exthalpy** - mass flow contribution of
exergy equation.

$$
\dot{Y}\equiv\dot{m}\left(
\overbrace{\underbrace{u+pv}_{h \equiv\text { enthalpy }}+\frac{1}{2}V^2+gz}^{\text{Flow energy}}-T_0\cdot s
\right)
$$

$$
\dot{Y}\equiv\dot{m}\left(\left(u-u_0\right)+p\left(v-v_0\right)+\frac{1}{2}\left(V^2-V_0^2\right)+g\left(z-z_0\right)-T_0\left(s-s_0\right)
\right)
$$

$$
\dot{Y}\equiv\left( \dot{J}-\dot{J_0} \right)-T_0\left( \dot{S}-\dot{S_0}\right)
$$

This is the contribution to the available energy allowed to be stored in
the system due to mass flow into or out of the boundary. ???

### Worked Example 21-1

Superheated water vapor at $1 \mathrm{MPa}$ and $200^{\circ} \mathrm{C}$
flows through a $10 \mathrm{cm}$ pipe with a velocity of
$30 \mathrm{m} / \mathrm{s} .$ With a stagnant surroundings at
temperature $T_{0}=25^{\circ} \mathrm{C}$ and pressure
$p_{0}=101 \mathrm{kPa},$ determine the specific flow exergy using (a)
the phase change model and (b) the perfect gas model (take
$c_{p}=1940.4 \mathrm{J} / \mathrm{kg} \cdot \mathrm{K}$
$R=461.5 \mathrm{J} / \mathrm{kg} \cdot \mathrm{K}$).

#### Solution

a.  Specific flow exergy using phase change model

$$
\begin{aligned}
\hline
v&=0.2060 \frac{\mathrm{m}^{3}}{\mathrm{kg}}\\
h&=2827.9 \frac{\mathrm{kJ}}{\mathrm{kg}}\\
s&=6.694 \frac{\mathrm{kJ}}{\mathrm{kg}\cdot\mathrm{K}}\\
\hline
v_{0}&=1.0029 \times 10^{-3} \frac{\mathrm{m}^{3}}{\mathrm{kg}} \\
h_{0}&=104.89 \frac{\mathrm{kJ}}{\mathrm{kg}} \\
s_{0}&=0.3674 \frac{\mathrm{kJ}}{\mathrm{kg}\cdot\mathrm{K}} \\
\hline
\end{aligned}
$$

$$
\begin{aligned}
\dot{m}&=\rho A V=\frac{\frac{\pi}{4}(D)^{2} \cdot V}{v}=\frac{\frac{\pi}{4}(0.1 \mathrm{m})^{2}\left(30 \frac{\mathrm{m}}{\mathrm{s}}\right)}{0.206 \frac{\mathrm{m}^3}{\mathrm{kg}}}\\
&=1.144 \frac{\mathrm{kg}}{\mathrm{s}}
\end{aligned}
$$

$$
V_{0}=0 \frac{\mathrm{m}}{\mathrm{s}}, \quad z-z_{0}=0 \mathrm{m}
$$

$$
g \approx 9.81 \frac{\mathrm{m}}{\mathrm{s}^{2}}
$$

$$
\dot{Y}=1,379.7 \mathrm{kW} \leftarrow
$$

b.  Specific flow exergy using the perfect gas model

$$
\Delta h=c_{p} \Delta T
$$

$$
R= \frac{\bar{R}}{\bar{M}}=461.5 \frac{\mathrm{J}}{\mathrm{kg}\cdot\mathrm{K}}
$$

$$
c_p=1940.4 \frac{\mathrm{J}}{\mathrm{kg}\cdot\mathrm{K}}
$$

$$
s-s_{0}=\Delta s=c_{p} \cdot \ln \left(\frac{T}{T_{0}}\right)-R \cdot\ln \left(\frac{p}{p_{0}}\right)
$$

$$
\dot{Y}=1,079.4 \mathrm{kW} \leftarrow
$$

$$
\text { error }=\frac{\left|V_{a}-\dot{Y}_{b}\right|}{Y_{a}} \times 100\% = 21.8\% \leftarrow
$$

### Equations

$$
\frac{d m_{sp}}{d t}=\sum_{i} \dot{m}_{i}-\sum_e \dot{m}_{e}
$$

$$
\frac{d E_{sp}}{d t}=\dot{J}_{net}+\dot{Q}_{net}+\dot{W}_{net}
$$

$$
\frac{d S_{sp}}{d t}=\dot{S}_{net}+\frac{\dot{Q}}{T_{b}}+\dot{S}_{gen}
$$

$$
\overbrace{\frac{d A_{sp}}{d t}}^{0}=\dot{Y}_{net}+\left(1-\frac{T_{0}}{T_{b}}\right) \overbrace{\dot{Q}_{net}}^{0}+\dot{W}_{net}+p_{0} \overbrace{\frac{d V_{sys}}{d t}}^{0}-\overbrace{T_{0}\cdot \dot{S}_{gen}}^{\dot{I}}
$$

$$
0=\dot{Y}_{net}-\dot{W}_t-\dot{I} \leftarrow
$$

### Worked Example 21-2

$$
\overbrace{\frac{dS}{dt}}^{0} = \dot{S}_{net}+\frac{\overbrace{\dot{Q}}^{0}}{T_b}+\dot{S}_{gen}
$$

$$
\dot{S}_{gen}=-\dot{m}\left(s_{i}-s_{e}\right)
$$

$$
\begin{aligned}
\dot{I}&=T_{0} \cdot \dot{S}_{gen}=-T_0 \cdot \dot{m} \left(s_{i}-s_{e}\right) \\
&= -\left(298 \mathrm{K}\right)\left(10\frac{\mathrm{kg}}{\mathrm{s}}\right)\left(7.4651 \frac{\mathrm{kJ}}{\mathrm{kg}\cdot\mathrm{K}}-7.48855\frac{\mathrm{kJ}}{\mathrm{kg}\cdot\mathrm{K}}\right)\\
&\approx 70\mathrm{kW}\leftarrow \\
\end{aligned}
$$
