# Dr. Roudkovski

For us going to be engineers, we must understand our Christian mission
in the context of engineering.

I can only answer the question 'What am I to do?' if I can answer the
prior question 'Of what story do I find myself a part?' -- Alasdair
MacIntyre

What things call for our allegiance?

-   work
-   politics
-   relationships
    -   friendships
    -   romance
-   progress
-   knowledge
-   power

Even to the point of engineering.

We are Christians first - everything else in our life must be submitted
to God.

## Holistic Reading of Scripture

-   Creation
-   Fall
    -   All things were impacted by this, the fall
-   Redemption
    -   So God begins this process
-   Eschaton

God's creational design is amazing for engineering - we have such a
great potential impact. Science and engineering is not bad, God is the
source of that knowledge.

In light of God's creation story, what would God's design be for your
vocation? What would God do?

-   Help people in the ways God has enabled me to be
    -   Could be the invention of something
    -   Could be the relationships in the workplace

Sabbat means "stop" - doesn't mean rest. Nor does rest mean to just lay
down and do nothing.

Where can engineering go wrong?

-   nuclear weapons
-   create a divide between people
    -   executives vs. blue-collar/engineers
    -   blue-collar vs engineers/executives
    -   engineers vs blue-collar/executives

Rely on God's wisdom, through prayer, and God will bless you.

We are going to have a lot of influence and power (or the ability to
allocate much) - how might we be able to help?

What do you do as a firm or company? We need to keep this in mind, and
as an individual we must strive for that. What do you do if you see
things not being done right?

A good Christian should wrestle with questions of war and violence and
so on.

What are some simple things we can do?

-   pay people fair wages
    -   don't muzzle the ox that treads the grain
    -   be welcoming to our community

Remember that even Paul failed more often than succeeded - don't be
afraid to fail. Stupid failure is stupid, but when you try and you give
your best to God, if it fails, God will be sufficient for you.
