# Regression Lines

* The equation of the line that best models the data is called the regression line given by:

$$y=b_{1} x+b_{0}$$

* Can be used to predict the value of $y$ for a given value of $x$. Should not be used to predict values of $y$ for $x$ values "far" away from original data.

Residuals (error between data and line):
$$
e_{i}=b_{1} x_{i}+b_{0}-y_{1}
$$

* Goal: Minimize the sum of the squared residuals using appropriate coefficients of $\mathrm{y}=\mathrm{b}_{1} \mathrm{x}+\mathrm{b}_{0}$.

$$
E=\sum_{i=1}^n\left(b_{1} x_{i}+b_{0}-y_{i}\right)^{2}
$$

* This is called the **Least Squares Method**.
* To find the values of $b_{1}$ and $b_{0}$, we use an optimization technique learned in Calculus 3 .
* Find the values of $b_1$ and $b_0$ using the system:

$$
\frac{\partial E}{\partial b_{1}}=0 \text { and } \frac{\partial E}{\partial b_{0}}=0
$$

$$
\begin{aligned}
\frac{\delta E}{b_1}&=0 \\
\frac{\delta E}{b_0}&=0
\end{aligned}
\Rightarrow
\begin{aligned}
\sum^n_{i=1}{2\left(b_1 x_i + b_0 - y_i\right)\cdot x_i} = 0 \\
\sum^n_{i=1}{2\left(b_1 x_i + b_0 - y_i\right)\cdot 1} = 0 
\end{aligned}
$$

Solving for $b_1$ and $b_1$, we obtain:

$$
b_{1}=\frac{\sum\left(x_{i}-\bar{x}\right)\left(y_{1}-\bar{y}\right)}{\sum\left(x_{i}-\bar{x}\right)^{2}}=\frac{S_{x y}}{S_{x x}}
$$

Where:

$$
\begin{array}{l}
S_{x y}=\sum x_{i}y_{i}-\frac{\left(\sum x_i\right)\left(\sum{y_1}\right)}{n} \\
S_{x x}=\sum x_{i}^{2}-\frac{\left(\sum{x_i}\right)^{2}}{n}
\end{array}
$$

$$
b_0=\bar{y}-b_1 \bar{x}
$$

## Last Class Example

$$
\begin{array}{l|l}
x & y \\
\hline 2 & 17 \\
2.5 & 20 \\
1.2 & 14 \\
1.7 & 16
\end{array}
$$

$$
\bar{x}=1.85 \quad \bar{y}=16.75
$$

$$
\begin{array}{ccccc}
{x} & {y} & ({x}-\bar{x})({y}-\bar{y}) & ({x}-\overline{{x}})^{{2}} & ({y}-\bar{y})^{{2}} \\
\hline 2 & 17 & 0.0375 & 0.0225 & 0.0625 \\
2.5 & 20 & 2.1125 & 0.4225 & 10.5625 \\
1.2 & 14 & 1.7875 & 0.4225 & 7.5625 \\
1.7 & 16 & 0.1125 & 0.0225 & 0.5625 \\
& \text { Total } & 4.05 & 0.89 & 18.75
\end{array}
$$

### Solution

$$
b_1=\frac{4.05}{0.89} = 4.55
$$

$$
b_{0}=16.75-4.55(1.85)=8.33
$$

#### Regression Line

$$
y=4.55 x+8.33
$$

Let's predict the value of y when $x=1.5$

$$
y=4.55(1.5)+8.33=15.15
$$

This is a point estimate of the predicted value.

## Regression Example

Calculate the equation of the regression line if eight data points provide the following information.

$$
\sum {xy}=22, \quad \sum {x} =11, \quad \sum {y} =14, \quad \sum x^{2}=24
$$

### Solution

$$
n=8
$$

$$
S_{x y}=22-\frac{(11)(14)}{8}=2.75
$$

$$
S_{x x}=24-\frac{(11)^{2}}{8}=8.875
$$

$$
b_{1}=\frac{S_{x y}}{S_{x x}}=\frac{2.75}{8.875}=0.31
$$

$$
b_{0}=\frac{14}{8}-(0.31)\left(\frac{11}{8}\right)=1.32
$$

$$
\begin{array}{l}
\text { Regression Line } \\
y=0.31 x+1.32
\end{array}
$$

## Grade Example

The grades of a class of 9 students on a midterm report ($x$) and on the final examination ($y$) are as follows:

$$
\begin{array}{c|ccccccccc}
x & 77 & 50 & 71 & 72 & 81 & 94 & 96 & 99 & 67 \\
\hline y & 82 & 66 & 78 & 34 & 47 & 85 & 99 & 99 & 68
\end{array}
$$

(a) Estimate the linear regression line.
(b) Estimate the final examination grade of a student who received a grade of 85 on the midterm report.

### Solution

a) 

$$
y=0.78 x+12.06
$$

b)

$$
y(85)=0.78(85)+12.06=78.36
$$

$$
\begin{array}{l}
r=0.56 \leftarrow \text {not very strong} \\
r^{2}=0.31
\end{array}
$$

# Causation and Correlation

The fact that two variables are strongly correlated does not in itself imply a cause and effect relationship between the variables. (causation) If there is significant correlation between two variables, you should consider the following possibilities:

1. Is there a direct cause and effect relationship between variables?
    - Does $y$ cause $x$? (Sales of product vs Advertising Budget)
2. Is there a reverse cause-and-effect relationship between the variables?
3. Is it possible that the relationship between the variables can be caused by a third variable or by a combination of several other variables?
    - (Safety training hours vs accidents on site)
4. Is it possible that the relationship between two variables may be a coincidence?
