# 8.1 - 8.2 Hypothesis Testing

## Right-tailed test
$$H_0: \mu=\mu_0$$
$$H_a: \mu>\mu_0$$

Note:
We calculate the value of a $\alpha$ for a specific value of $H_0$.
We calculate the value of $\beta$ for a specific value of $H_a$

---

### Def'n
The probability $1-\beta$ represents the power of the test.
The power of a test is the probability of rejecting $H_0$ given that a specific alternative hypothesis is true.

The power of the test is the probability of not making a type II error.

---

### Cement Example
A new curing process developed for a certain type of cement results in a mean compression strength of 5000kg per square centimeter with a standard deviation of 120kg. To test the hypothesis that $\mu=5000$ against the alternative that $\mu<5000$, a random sample of 50 pieces of cement is tested at $\alpha=0.05$ level of significance.

a) Find the critical value and rejection region of the hypothesis test in terms of X instead of Z.
b) Find the value of $\beta$ for the alternatives $\mu=4970$ and $\mu=4960$
c) Find the power of the test for each of the alternatives in part b

#### Working

$$H_0: \mu=5000$$
$$H_a: \mu<5000$$
$$\alpha=0.05$$

Check Panopto `2020-10-28` here, I missed (a) trying to take notes...

b) $\mu=4970$:
$$
\begin{aligned}
\beta(4970)=P(\bar{X} \ge 4972)&=normcdf(4972,\infty,4970,\frac{120}{\sqrt{50}})\\
&=\textbf{0.453}\\
\end{aligned}
$$
$\mu=4960$:
$$
\begin{aligned}
\beta(4960)=P(\bar{X} \ge 4972)&=normcdf(4972,\infty,4960,\frac{120}{\sqrt{50}})\\
&=\textbf{0.24}\\
\end{aligned}
$$

c) $\mu=4970$:
$$
\begin{aligned}
\text{Power}=&1-0.453\\
=&\textbf{0.547}\\
\end{aligned}
$$
$\mu=4960$:
$$
\begin{aligned}
\text{Power}=&1-0.24\\
=&\textbf{0.76}\\
\end{aligned}
$$

## Properties of the Errors


* Type I errors happen when we reject a true null hypothesis. Type I errors are equivalent to false positives. Type I errors can be controlled. 
* Type II errors happen when we fail to reject a false null hypothesis. Type II errors are equivalent to false negatives. 


* The type I and type II errors are related. A decrease in the probability of one generally results in an increase in the probability of the other.
* The size of the rejection region, and therefore the probability of committing a type I error, can always be reduced by adjusting the critical value.
* An increase in the sample size $n$ will reduce $\alpha$ and $\beta$ simultaneously.
* If $H_0$ is false, then $\beta$ becomes smaller as the distance between the true value and hypothesized value increases.

## $z$-Test for a Population Proportion
Can be used when a binomial distribution is given such that $np\ge40$

$$
z=\frac{\bar{x}-\mu}{\left(\frac{\sigma}{\sqrt{n}}\right)}, \text { Standardized Test Statistic }
$$