---
author: William Floyd
date: 2021-02-01
fontsize: 11pt
header-includes: |
  ```{=tex}
  \usepackage[margin=1.375in]{geometry}
  \usepackage{fancyhdr}
  \pagestyle{fancy}
  \renewcommand{\headrulewidth}{0pt}
  \fancyfoot[LO,LE]{William Floyd}
  \fancyfoot[RE,RO]{Pg. \thepage}
  \usepackage{setspace}
  \doublespacing
  ```
include-before: |
  ```{=tex}
  \newpage
  ```
subtitle: "A Christian Approach to Engineering Leadership
  (ENGR6103)`\\linebreak `{=tex}Dr. Anson`\\linebreak`{=tex}"
title: A Case for Christ
---

```{=tex}
\usepackage[margin=1.375in]{geometry}
\usepackage{fancyhdr}
\pagestyle{fancy}
\renewcommand{\headrulewidth}{0pt}
\fancyfoot[LO,LE]{William Floyd}
\fancyfoot[RE,RO]{Pg. \thepage}
\usepackage{setspace}
\doublespacing
```

```{=tex}
\newpage
```

Lee Strobel begins "The Case For Christ" by explaining his past
experiences, beliefs, and prejudices against Christianity. Though raised
in a Christian household, he never accepted Christ for himself and
ultimately rejected the faith entirely. Though he was happy fir a time,
he would eventually come to realize he was not a good person, and his
life was unfulfilling. When his wife became a Christian and he began
seeing the positive changes in her life, Strobel decided to take an
objective look at Christianity. This book is the product of that
investigation.

To begin this search for truth, Strobel takes a methodical approach,
dissecting first the fundamental claims surrounding Christ, using
internal evidence from the New Testament. He then transitions to an
evaluation of Jesus' claims in the context of the entirety of scripture.
Finally, the author looks at the trustworthiness of the texts themselves
as historical documents. Ultimately, Strobel ends up coming to give his
life to Christ for himself.

Strobel's first argument in investigating Christianity was whether or
not Jesus truly claimed to be God. The conclusion is ultimately that He
did indeed claim to be God, though the answer is nuanced. For Jesus to
claim to be God at the time would have been entirely heretical, as the
concept of the Trinity was not yet established (the Trinity is not
analysed in this book, however). Consulting with scholars, Strobel does
eventually come to the conclusion that Jesus did indeed make the claim
to be God, both by confirming others claims, and by dying for the
accusation of claiming to be God.

Next, the author questions if Jesus was crazy - again concluding that He
was not. Assuming Jesus to be telling the truth, there is nothing about
Him to suggest that He is crazy. If He is crazy, there is no evidence
other than the claim to be God to back this up. Neither does Jesus
appear to be a hypnotist, so ultimately it was Jesus' miracles that
backed up His claims.

The question of whether Jesus matched the identity of the Messiah is
then analysed, with the conclusion again being that He was indeed.
Strobel finds there are such specific prophesies concerning Jesus'
crucifixion that cannot possibly be ignored. Coupled with the agreement
that Christ was not crazy, or a liar (for a liar would not die for a
cause they did not believe in), it becomes obvious that Christ was the
Messiah predicted.

Moving to an external view of the Scriptures, Strobel investigates if
the records of Christ may be trusted. As he probes the evidence, it
becomes clear that the Scriptures are the most trustworthy of any
ancient text, and the only consistent and externally evidenced religious
text. It has no evidence to suggest tampering, distortion, or collusion
- it was reproduced faithfully. Additionally, the time of writing, and
claims that those living at the time could have disproved if they were
untrue truly cement the authenticity and truthfulness of the texts.

Finally, external evidence is brought in to check if Scriptures tell the
truth - and indeed it does. Phrases found in scripture once thought to
be of questionable credibility were later found to be correct for the
time period, only further confirming the authenticity of the Scripture.

Moving to the question of Jesus' death (now that it has been established
that He was indeed crucified), Strobel asks if He truly died, if so what
happened to the body, and what evidence there is to support His being
raised from the dead. To all of these questions, the contemporary
evidence points to Jesus truly dying - no other explanation makes sense,
nor does anyone of the time doubt His death. Medical analysis of key
details of His death further confirm His death.

The questions of what happened to Jesus' body follows much the same path
- contemporary accounts do not deny the absence of His body. It is clear
then that Jesus did die, and that His body was no longer in the grave.
It makes no sense for the scared Disciples to risk death for their dead
leader. It makes even less sense for them to lie that He was raised to
life. The only logical reason was that He truly did come back to life.

The final point Strobel brings concerns what Jesus did after the
resurrection. The witness of 500 makes it difficult to believe that this
was a lie. In fact, the text practically calls for people of the time to
talk to those who saw Jesus after His resurrection. If the author wished
to fool others, they would not make such bold claims - this was a
declaration of truth, to be checked and confirmed by others, not taken
on face value.

Strobel's conclusion is finally that Jesus was indeed the Son of God,
was the Messiah, that He truly did live, was crucified and died, was
raised after three days, and appeared before others.

```{=html}
<!--

3 pages, 11 pt font, double spaced. No personal pronouns except for question responses.

Discussion of Main Points (2 to 2.5 pages)

Questions: (Personal pronouns appropriate here (0.5 to 1 pages)

1. What stood out to you as new/unique?
2. What stood out to as you already knew it, but you often don’t do it?
3. What stood out to you as questionable, or you might disagree with it?
4. What key point(s) or action(s) would make the most positive impact on your leadership (or interpersonal effectiveness) if implemented it?
5. Express a personal thought not in the list above.

-->
```
1.  What stood out to you as new/unique?

What stood out to me was how simply a largely complete and logical
argument for Christ could be conveyed. Having grown up in the church and
come to Christ at a reasonably young age, I never wrestled with these
questions for myself. To have such a clear breakdown of the logical
arguments from an outside perspective was new to me.

2.  What stood out to as you already knew it, but you often don't do it?

Not answering the question directly, but I feel the responsibility to
take charge of my own faith has been something I know I need to do, but
do not always do well. Seeing through the eyes of another how they
approached their faith, I am reminded that I need to take my faith
seriously also and put time and thought into it.

3.  What stood out to you as questionable, or you might disagree with
    it?

Nothing stood out to me as questionable, but what could be an issue is
the lack of discussion surrounding the deeper aspects of the faith.
While necessary in an introductory book of this type, it does mean that
the reader will not find answers for more nuanced questions.

4.  What key point(s) or action(s) would make the most positive impact
    on your leadership (or interpersonal effectiveness) if you
    implemented it?

I believe that a deep personal understanding of my faith would be
helpful, for the sake of my witness to others. Without it, I lose
credibility on account of not knowing why I believe something, and
doubly so if I attempt to suggest others should follow my lead.

5.  Express a personal thought not in the list above.

While I find the book convincing personally, I think that it is only
effective if the reader is open to the idea of God being real. Should an
atheist read it with no intent of keeping an open mind, I'm certain they
would find the evidence insufficient to convince them. As humans, we are
altogether too good at convincing ourselves of something before giving
it a fair evaluation.
