---
author: William Floyd
date: 2021-02-08
fontsize: 11pt
header-includes: |
  ```{=tex}
  \usepackage{helvet}
  \renewcommand{\familydefault}{\sfdefault}
  \usepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}
  \usepackage{fancyhdr}
  \pagestyle{fancy}
  \renewcommand{\headrulewidth}{0pt}
  \fancyfoot[LO,LE]{William Floyd}
  \fancyfoot[RE,RO]{Pg. \thepage}
  \fancyfoot[CE,CO]{}
  \fancyhead[RE,RO]{}
  \fancyhead[LE,LO]{}
  \fancyhead[CE,CO]{}
  \usepackage{setspace}
  \doublespacing
  ```
include-before: |
  ```{=tex}
  \newpage
  ```
subtitle: "A Christian Approach to Engineering Leadership
  (ENGR6103)`\\linebreak `{=tex}Dr.Â Anson`\\linebreak`{=tex}"
title: The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People
---

```{=tex}
\usepackage{helvet}
\renewcommand{\familydefault}{\sfdefault}
\usepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}
\usepackage{fancyhdr}
\pagestyle{fancy}
\renewcommand{\headrulewidth}{0pt}
\fancyfoot[LO,LE]{William Floyd}
\fancyfoot[RE,RO]{Pg. \thepage}
\fancyfoot[CE,CO]{}
\fancyhead[RE,RO]{}
\fancyhead[LE,LO]{}
\fancyhead[CE,CO]{}
\usepackage{setspace}
\doublespacing
```

```{=tex}
\newpage
```

In *The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People*, by Stephen R. Covey,
various self-improvement habits are discussed. To begin the book, Covey
notes that prior to World War 2, matters of character were emphasized,
but it changed to matters of personality in the post-war era. He notes
that to focus solely on personably will leave you untrusted by others.
The idea of paradigms is also introduced, and how if we have an
incorrect paradigm, we can never get to the right destination.

The more one knows of one's own paradigm, the more one can listen to
other world views, and the more objective one's viewpoint becomes. Covey
states that when our paradigms shift, they bring about powerful change
because they provide a completely different perspective. Attitude and
behavior alone cannot bring about major change, because they come from
our paradigms.

The author states also that principles are different from values - these
include things such as fairness, integrity, honesty, and dignity. There
can be no shortcuts to achieving good results. An inside-out approach is
needed, which says we need to work on internals in order to get positive
outside results. Further, true effectiveness - Covey argues - lies in
the balance between production and the means of production. You can't be
effective in one without the other. The assets of production/assets
produced are classed in three ways: physical, financial, and human.

#### Habit 1: Be Proactive

We need self-awareness to be able to change our paradigms, as using the
view of others around us is misleading. Our ability to act on
self-awareness makes us unique and allows us to break from our
circumstances. Proactive people determine their own outcomes and take
responsibility, reactive people let circumstances govern them. Proactive
people know their situation, and know their power to change it, it's an
inside-out approach. They focus on things they are both concerned about
and can do something about. Sometimes these problems can't be solved but
only managed by their reaction.

#### Habit 2: Begin with the End in Mind

Begin each day with a picture of the end of your life and use it to
inform all else - it helps you to focus on what really matters. One must
clearly define the end goal before beginning. Covey argues that each
person has a centre, or maybe more than one, and that a good centre is
worth more than material things or people. The quality of our script for
our lives depends on our ability to be creative and imaginative. We also
require this for imagining wort case scenario responses. The author also
recommends writing a mission statement with roles to be balanced.

#### Habit 3: Put First Things First

Covey states this is the physical creation of habits 1 and 2.
Self-management is putting first things first through independent will,
shown though a commitment in all things including everyday decisions -
this discipline overrides all else. Effective personal management
requires spending time on non-urgent but high importance personal tasks,
such as exercise and strengthening relationships. It often requires
considering the opportunity cost of activities. One must select roles,
goals for those roles, schedule time for those goals, then adapt the
plan daily. Building a bank of trust with others is key - small
kindnesses go a long way, as do understanding, keeping commitments,
clarifying expectations, and sincere apologies. Every problem is a means
of using the opportunity to deposit into this bank.

#### Habit 4: Think Win-Win

This removes unhealthy competition. Character is the basis for this
paradigm, and it requires a lot of patience, investment, open
communication, and a strong bond of trust. The key being the
relationship, not always the win-win.

#### Habit 5: Seek First to Understand, then to be Understood.

People are usually bad at listening - doing it with the intent to reply,
not to understand. They filter things through their own narrow
worldviews. Empathic listening means to be focussed entirely on
understanding the speaker. It's a great deposit into the emotional bank
account, and well worth the time investment and practice.

#### Habit 6: Synergize

This is the core of principle-centered leadership, where the whole is
greater than the parts. Strive to value differences, respect them, and
build on strengths. It requires commitment and understanding of people
you interact with. To have synergy with other requires synergy within
oneself - the whole brain must be working together.

#### Habit 7: Sharpen the Saw

Your greatest asset is yourself, so take care of it. Exercise yourself
in all ways, physically, mentally, spiritually, and socially, it is the
biggest investment we can make. Sharpening the saw in one way benefits
the other aspect also - it's an upward spiral of growth. One should
affirm others proactivity and responsibility, helping others achieve
deeper and more productive relationships.

# Questions

## What stood out to you as new/unique?

I found the distinction between character ethics and personality ethics
to be interesting, especially the way that focussing only on personality
will lead us astray. The priorities of our culture are not always
correct, and can change over time.

## What stood out to as you already knew it, but you often don't do it?

I already knew most of the content of this book, though I do not
practice it well. Seeking first to understand then be understood is
especially difficult for me, and something that I need to improve.

## What stood out to you as questionable, or you might disagree with it?

Nothing that stood out as questionable, though perhaps not all of the
book is going to be life-changing. These are means to an end, not the
end goal themselves.

## What key point(s) or action(s) would make the most positive impact on your leadership (or interpersonal effectiveness) if implemented it?

I believe that Seeking first to understand then be understood would help
me the most in leadership - it would help me to avoid alienating others,
while also improving my knowledge and broadening my worldview.

## Express a personal thought not in the list above.

I find the book somewhat obvious, but perhaps that is the point. Perhaps
it is meant to show us the things that we know we ought to do but do not
do well.
