---
author: William Floyd
date: 2021-03-01
fontsize: 10.5pt
header-includes: |
  \usepackage{helvet}
  \renewcommand{\familydefault}{\sfdefault}
  \usepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}
  \usepackage{fancyhdr}
  \pagestyle{fancy}
  \renewcommand{\headrulewidth}{0pt}
  \fancyfoot[LO,LE]{William Floyd}
  \fancyfoot[RE,RO]{Pg. \thepage}
  \fancyfoot[CE,CO]{}
  \fancyhead[RE,RO]{}
  \fancyhead[LE,LO]{}
  \fancyhead[CE,CO]{}
  \usepackage{setspace}
  \doublespacing
include-before: |
  \newpage
subtitle: "A Christian Approach to Engineering Leadership
  (ENGR6103)\\linebreak Dr. Anson\\linebreak "
title: "The Mission of God's People \\linebreak and \\linebreak The Story Line of the Bible\\linebreak Summaries"
---

# The Mission of God's People

In the chapter titled "People Who Live and Work in the Public Square",
Wright introduces the concept of a public square. Most people separate
work from their faith life - this chapter addresses that. That is, how
does God play into things that aren't directly related to your faith
(Government, work, relations outside church, society at large). God, in
fact, is interested in the everyday actions, not only the church.

God creates it. In God's kingdom, these areas of our lives are important
- we are to take care of this world and the people around us, not only
those who believe also. There is a misconception that work is as a
result of the fall - Wright states that we as humans were created to
work, by nature, and is not due to the fall. Just because we are fallen
does not mean we have an excuse to not be a part of the public square.
We were created to be workers like God (cultural mandate).

God audits it. God is the judge (of public things - the auditor).
Everything judges everything, including what occurs in the public
square. He sees all, and judges all, but public actions will especially
be so - for if people see and judge already, how much more does God see
and know. Because God sees and knows, we must be open, honest, and have
great integrity in the public square.

God governs it. Humans have the ability to make their choices, all that
occurs in the public square is a result of human choice - choices that
remain under God's government. We are responsible for our choices and
actions, but God still has the ultimate control over these things.

God redeems it. Nothing lacks eternal consequence. While some things may
be fleeting, God intends to redeem all things, temporary or not. Nothing
can escape him. This is true of human creation also - God will redeem it
all, so do not take your work that serves humans as God not caring. It
is not God's plan to destroy, but instead to restore creation to what
God intended for humans.

Missional Engagement in the Public Square How God's people are to behave
in the public square. They are positioned to serve the state - even if
it is oppressive, we can still do good through it. Accept the reality
that you are a part of it. Work for the government and for its benefit,
but retain your integrity and faithfulness to God. Christians are to
pray for the government. Seek the welfare of the city, through this you
can bless many more people. Peace isn't the absence of conflict, it is a
pervasive mentality of forgiveness and a thriving, wholesome of life.

Ordinary work is not beneath faithful believers - indeed we are
encouraged to demonstrate our faith in leading a quiet life. This is not
out of a spirit of timidity, but humility. It is good to do work, and
good to do good through our work.

Christians are to be well engaged in the public square, but to do so
with the grace, mercy and wisdom that God grants us. They will be
different from those around them, the light to the world. The world
going bad is not the fault of the world, for it is inevitable.

We are called the resist idolatry because we worship the one true God.
Our view of the world must be different, seeing everything in the
context of Gods creation of the world and His eventual redemption plans.
The way the world is, however, is rebellious against God, hating Him and
His people. Being in the public square, Christians must actively fight
against these things. Truly living for God means that conflict is
inevitable. The first missional task is the identify these idols. The
next task is the resist these things. Live as a witness of God.

Christians are called to suffer. Spiritual warfare causes suffering,
thus those that live as witnesses to God are going to suffer. This is
contrary to a common line of thought that states that suffering is a
sign of a lack of faith - this is untrue (Job).

Why must Christians suffer though? Because God (through His son Jesus
Christ) suffered, and we are called to participate in this God's mission
also. Christ suffered on the cross - so must we take up our own crosses
to follow Him.

Concluding the chapter, Wright states that the daily work matters
because it matters to God. It has its own value and worth. While we are
in the world, we are not of the world - we live and work in the public
square, but the root of all the things we do must be from God's kingdom.
As a disciple, we must be willing to suffer for Christ - through this He
will enable us to bear fruits.

```{=tex}
\newpage
```
# The Story Line of the Bible

## Act I: God Establishes His Kingdom (Creation)

The story begins with God calling all things into creation, climaxing at
the creation of humans. All things were created good, and humans were
called to steward this newly created earth. Adam and Eve, the first
humans, are in close relation with God, and the world is very good.

## Act II: Rebellion In the Kingdom (Fall)

Adam and Eve have been given everything they need to live a fulfilling
life in community with God, with the single condition being that they do
not eat the fruit of a tree in the middle of the garden, or face death.
For a time, Adam and Eve heed this warning - that is, until Satan tricks
them into eating from this tree, killing with it the unique connection
they had with God. Their lives subsequently fall apart, as their
relationship becomes strained, their children fight to the point of
murder, ending Act Two in turmoil.

## Act III: The King Chooses Israel (Redemption Initiated)

### Scene I: A People for the King

This act begins with judgement being handed down from God - Adam and Eve
are exiled from the Garden of Eden. However, there is a hope, as God
promises to - eventually - end the evil that has crept into the world.
The next thousands of years are a spiral of an increasingly evil world,
resulting in the near extinction of the world (or known world) with Noah
and the flood. Unfortunately, those that remain from Noah are no more
faithful than before the flood. God, however, is faithful to his promise
throughout.

There begins a plan for redemption, leading to the the blessing of
Abraham, and the lineage to follow. Many tumultuous years follow,
involving many hardships and unfaithful humans, with God leading them
all along the way, eventually leading the the Israelites being captive
in Egypt. At last, God delivers them from Egypt with a dramatic set of
ten plagues, but the Israelites begin to complain (not for the last
time). They are led to a promised land, but ultimately do not enter it
for fear, and so are banished to wander for forty years.

### Scene II: A Land for the People

Finally, a new leader (and a new generation of Israelites) is ready to
enter the land, and do so with Gods power and protection. But, as
happens so often, they yet again turn from Him. A series of kings are
given to them, for they demanded them, and eventually they are once
again captured as prisoners. Eventually they once again return to the
promised land, but only in small numbers - there is no word from God,
and they broke their promise with Him. The only hope is His promise to
them.

## Interlude: A Kingdom Story Waiting for an Ending (Intertestamental Period)

For four hundred years, no word is heard from God. They have faith that
their is the true God, and the only hope they have grows larger and
larger. Everyone is waiting for God to return.

## Act IV: The Coming of the Kingdom (Redemption Accomplished)

Into this atmosphere of anticipation steps Jesus. Ultimately, He is not
the deliverer that the Jews wanted, but is instead a teacher, with an
insignificant following and a controversial tendency towards forgiveness
and associating with the unclean. Most do not recognize Him, and He is
put to death for His claims of being from God.

And yet, he is raised to life again, and tells his disciples to spread
the good news to the world.

## Act V: Spreading the News of the Kingdom (The Church's Mission)

### Scene I: From Jerusalem to Rome

The gospel is taken to the Romans.

### Scene II: And Into the Entire World

The gospel is taken to the whole world. This is where we are now

## Act VI: The Return of the King (Redemption Completed)

This Act is yet to be completed. We are waiting for His return, in which
He will redeem the whole world.

```{=tex}
\newpage
```
# Questions

## What stood out to you as new/unique?

I did not find anything especially new or unique in specific, but the
overall cohesion of the objectives was a fresh perspective to me

## What stood out to as you already knew it, but you often don't do it?

There is a disjoint between my life in church and my life in the public
square - I know these should be the same and yet I struggle to interact
with God in the same way in both circles.

## What stood out to you as questionable, or you might disagree with it?

Nothing was objectionable, it was all solid guidance.

## What key point(s) or action(s) would make the most positive impact on your leadership (or interpersonal effectiveness) if implemented it?

I believe that understanding that my witness to others is derived from
my faithfulness to God, and that my faith has a flow-on effect to all
things in my life. There is no use getting caught up in the weeds on
certain behaviors if my base is off.

## Express a personal thought not in the list above.

As a freshman I found the concept of the biblical timeline to be new, I
enjoyed having a refresher on it.
