---
author: William Floyd
date: 2021-03-15
fontsize: 11pt
header-includes: |
  \usepackage{helvet}
  \renewcommand{\familydefault}{\sfdefault}
  \usepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}
  \usepackage{fancyhdr}
  \pagestyle{fancy}
  \renewcommand{\headrulewidth}{0pt}
  \fancyfoot[LO,LE]{William Floyd}
  \fancyfoot[RE,RO]{Pg. \thepage}
  \fancyfoot[CE,CO]{}
  \fancyhead[RE,RO]{}
  \fancyhead[LE,LO]{}
  \fancyhead[CE,CO]{}
  \usepackage{setspace}
  \doublespacing
include-before: |
  \newpage
subtitle: "A Christian Approach to Engineering Leadership
  (ENGR6103)\\linebreak Dr. Anson\\linebreak"
title: "The 21 Irrefutable Laws of Leadership"
---

# Summary

#### 1 - The Law of the Lid

Leadership ability is the lid that limits effectiveness - the lower this lid, the less effective the leader can be.
This may be influenced by any number of other factors, and those with a greater leadership ability will lead those with a lesser ability.

#### 2 - The Law of Influence

Leadership is a measure of influence, nothing else.
However, who we influence - and how - is critical: a good leader will raise others up to their greatest potential.
A leader does not need a title, and a title does not make a leader.

#### 3 - The Law of Process

"Leadership develops daily, not in a day."
Knowing where you want to go does no good if you don't know how to get there - a good leader helps others find out how to get there.

#### 4 - The Law of Navigation

Following on from the law of process, once you know how to achieve a goal, the road to that goal must be navigated.
You must control your direction, not be controlled by it.
A leader can chart a course, not just steer the ship.

#### 5 - The Law of Addition

Truly valuing others and making ourselves valuable to them adds value to others.
A mature leader knows to stop and listen to those being led before leading.

#### 6 - The Law of Solid Ground

Leadership is founded on the solid ground of trust - a leader without trust has nothing to offer.
To break trust is to lose influence, and hence effective leadership.

#### 7 - The Law of Respect

Good leaders rely on respect, not on talent alone.
All leadership is voluntary - once people lose respect, you lose your authority.

#### 8 - The Law of Intuition

Intuition relies on more than just leadership experience - it must be nurtured and developed separate from leadership itself.

#### 9 - The Law of Magnetism

"You are who you attract".
If you want good people, be the good person to attract them.
Extends to competency also.

#### 10 - The Law of Connection

People will not buy into a leader's vision unless they have a personal connection - so a good leader will build a personal connection first before leading.

#### 11 - The Law of Inner Circle

"A leader’s potential is determined by those closest to him".
Similar to magnetism, we must surround ourselves with those we aspire to be - we will become more like them.
Become the best leader we can, then improve as you can with others.

#### 12 - The Law of Empowerment

Secure leaders give power to others.
A good leader will pick good leaders to serve under them, and don't meddle with what they do.
Empowering those under you improves you as a leader also.

#### 13 - The Law of the Picture

Similar to magnetism and inner circle, "people do what people see".
Setting a good example will encourage those around you to do good also.

#### 14 - The Law of Buy-In

Similar to the law of connection, people must buy into the leader before they will buy into the vision - they cannot be separated.

#### 15 - The Law of Victory

Successful leaders have an unwillingness to be defeated.
They take responsibility for winning.

#### 16 - The Law of the Big Mo

Says that "momentum is a leader’s best friend" - especially true when starting out.
It is true of organization, but it requires a leader with vision and motivation, and a good team. 

#### 17 - The Law of Priorities

"Leaders understand that activity is not necessarily about accomplishment." - we must be productive, not just busy.
We must ask what we can do that nobody can or should do for us.

#### 18 - The Law of Sacrifice

Leadership requires sacrifice (or it does to lead well).
The key to good leadership is putting others ahead of yourself.

#### 19 - The Law of Timing

"When to lead is as important as what to do and where to go".
Wrong time + wrong action = disaster, right action + wrong time = resistance, wrong action + right time = mistake, right action + right time = success. 

#### 20 - The Law of Explosive Growth

The multiply, lead leaders.
They in turn will do so, and you have people on fire for a vision.

#### 21 - The Law of Legacy

A leader's lasting value is in what happens when they are gone - achievements are nothing without success in empowering others.

# Questions

## What stood out to you as new/unique?

Specifically pointing out how we ought to bring up other leaders and to give them power was a refreshing view.

## What stood out to as you already knew it, but you often don't do it?

I had already heard much of this through life, but putting into practice The  Law of Priorities is difficult for me.
I struggle to put the important things ahead of the "low hanging fruit".

## What stood out to you as questionable, or you might disagree with it?

I find the hard emphasis on leadership itself questionable - a leader must serve, not only lead.
I find it be a very Western view that everyone needs to be a "leader".

## What key point(s) or action(s) would make the most positive impact on your leadership (or interpersonal effectiveness) if implemented it?

Learning to prioritize better, and empower others around me as leaders would help me most.

## Express a personal thought not in the list above.

America seems to have too many chiefs, and not enough indians...
Everyone wants to be a race horse, but we need more plough horses.