---
author: William Floyd
date: 2021-03-29
fontsize: 11pt
header-includes: |
  \usepackage{helvet}
  \renewcommand{\familydefault}{\sfdefault}
  \usepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}
  \usepackage{fancyhdr}
  \pagestyle{fancy}
  \renewcommand{\headrulewidth}{0pt}
  \fancyfoot[LO,LE]{William Floyd}
  \fancyfoot[RE,RO]{Pg. \thepage}
  \fancyfoot[CE,CO]{}
  \fancyhead[RE,RO]{}
  \fancyhead[LE,LO]{}
  \fancyhead[CE,CO]{}
  \usepackage{setspace}
  \doublespacing
include-before: |
  \newpage
subtitle: "A Christian Approach to Engineering Leadership
  (ENGR6103)\\linebreak Dr. Anson\\linebreak"
title: "Conflict Resolution"
---

# Summary

#### 1: Own the Emotion

Emotional influence requires emotional responsibility.
Don't just blame external events for your emotions - they are your own, and it is up to you as to how you allow the to form.
If you keep blaming anyone but yourself for your own reaction, you will never overcome your own reaction

#### 2: Name the Story

Emotions come from events that happen - you must determine what truly happened to make you feel that way you do.
Really ask what story you're telling, if you're painting yourself as the helpless victim.
Once you see this, you'll also see the other ways in which you could look at the situation.

#### 3: Challenge the Story

Ask yourself questions that provoke yourself out of your own story - to make yourself question if you're really the victim.
See how you could move towards what you really want instead of what fits with your story.
Try asking what you should do instead of defending yourself.

#### 4: Find Your Primal Story

Work to determine what stories you tell yourself in predictable situations, and attempt to break from them.
For example, flaring up under criticism due to parental criticism in the past.
Challenge the idea that your safety or worth are in question in these times, and stay yourself.

# Questions

## What stood out to you as new/unique?

Most of the article was new to me.
Not so much the general idea of working to think clearly, but the step-by-step process of talking yourself through a situation, and knowing what to identify for yourself.
It was refreshing to read.

## What stood out to as you already knew it, but you often don't do it?

I already knew that it is important to not defend myself, but I am very bad at this - my natural instinct is to defend my actions, even when I never thought them through and have no actual backing for them.
I've found this to get in the way of accepting well intended criticism and correction.
I find myself needing to be gently eased into correction.

## What stood out to you as questionable, or you might disagree with it?

Nothing seemed questionable, it appeared to be reasonable.

## What key point(s) or action(s) would make the most positive impact on your leadership (or interpersonal effectiveness) if implemented it?

I believe that practicing slowing myself down and not letting my hurt or surprise get in the way of communication would benefit me most - especially in terms of being corrected or given advise.
Being able to learn from others more readily would help a great deal.

## Express a personal thought not in the list above.

In some ways I feel that I used to be better that keeping a clear head than I am now - perhaps it is that I am more aware of how I react to others, or maybe it is the more frequent social interactions that have brought this to the surface for me.
Maybe it is merely a byproduct of being chronically sleep deprived...
Whatever the case, I feel this would help me greatly in relating to others on a deeper level.

\newpage

# Summary (Videos)

## How to Resolve Conflict and Restore Relationships

It's important to know how to resolve conflict and reconcile broken relationships in all areas of life.
As written in the beatitudes, God blesses those who are peacemakers.
Peacemaking is not avoiding and it is not appeasing - Jesus always dealt with conflict head on.
We must deal with conflict for three main reasons:

1. Conflict blocks fellowship with God - you have the be right with people to be right with God.
2. Conflict blocks prayers - you cannot love people if you are in conflict with them, and you cannot be in good relationship with God if you're not loving others.
3. Conflict blocks happiness - If relationships are not good, nothing else will make you happy.

#### 1: Make the first move
Don't wait for someone else to make the first move, it won't happen.
In fact, reconciling with people is more important than worship or your gift to God - it doesn't even matter who is at fault.
Don't put it off, it will be spiritually damaging.
Conflict has to be intentionally resolved, because time heals no emotional wounds - resentment and bitterness only get worse with time, and the only way to resolve conflict is to face it, and go through it.
The reason we put it off is because we are afraid.
We are afraid of vulnerability, so we become distant and defensive.
The greater the insecurity and fear, the more distant and demanding you become - you fear what others can do to you with with sensitive information.

#### 2: Ask God for Wisdom
Rely on the Holy Spirit for courage.
Our courage comes from the Holy spirit - through this, our love should exceed our fear, because the perfect love of God can help us overcome all else.
We should ask God for wisdom, and He will give it.

#### 3: Begin with admitting your own fault
It is always possible to find some fault to apologize for, even if it is simply the reaction to being wronged - find what’s wrong inside you instead of excusing it.
Self-centeredness and selfish desires cause conflict.
When you're at peace inside, what’s outside doesn’t upset you.
It doesn’t mean you will always agree, but you can disagree without getting distressed.
Incompatible is inherent because we’re all different, so no matter who you’re with you’ll have issues.
The greater the differences in between you and someone else, the greater the potential for growth.
In humility, humbleness and flexibility, it is possible to learn from anyone.
Resolving a conflict is far more rewarding than dissolving a relationship, even if it's against our stubborn and selfish nature.

Prideful people get their feelings hurt constantly, and it only leads to arguments.
One easy phrase to defuse a situation is to say "I’m sorry, I was only thinking of myself" - pride and ego are reduced in doing so.
We all have blind spots we can’t see, though everyone else does.
Even so, we can’t defend what we don't know we have - people must tell us what we cannot see.
Coming to conflict with a humble heart, beginning with our own faults, trying to find our blind spots, and confessing our part of conflict first will help greatly.

#### 4: Listen to other people's hurt and perspective first
Conflict is always about hurt, and argument are about emotion - someone’s emotion got hurt.
"Hurt people hurt people".
Those with love, joy, and peace won’t hurt others, but the more someone hurts the more they will hurt others.
It is those that seem the worst that need love the most.

When someone's dignity is taken from them, they get mad - as Christians, we must find their needs and hurts, and listen to the emotion behind their words (emotions don't lie, words do).
Be quick to listen, slow to speak, slow to get hungry.
In fact, always listen before speaking, it will defuse the conflict, validate the other, and demonstrate a Christlike attitude.
Focusing on their needs, try to see things their way, and seek to understand before being understood - their background and circumstances will help you understand much more, and help you be more patient.
You must look at how far someone has come, not how far they have to go, and be considerate of their doubts and fears.
All fears are irrational, including our own, so try to understand why they feel that way.

#### 5: Speak the truth tactfully
Say it with love and kindness - don’t just "say it as it is".
Have some tact, and consider how it's said, because are never persuasive when you are abusive.
Truth is much easier to accept when it is wrapped in love, but reckless words pierce like a sword.
When anger is used to say truth, the truth will be ignored and only the emotion remains, so use words that build people up, not tear them down.
Avoid using words and phrases that you know will trigger someone else.

#### 6: Fix the problem not the blame
Don’t attack one another - no good comes from trying to fix the blame.
Stop blaming one another and fix the problem instead - rid yourself of slander, angry rage, and maliciousness

#### 7: Focus on reconciliation not resolution
Peace can had, even if we can't agree on everything.
Not everything needs a resolution, but we can walk hand in hand seeing eye to eye.
Many times the relationship is worth much more than the disagreement, so commit to bringing reconciliation in this broken world, and aim to help restore relationships.
As Christ representatives, we want others to become reconciled to God and to spread that peace to others.
Peacemakers are blessed by God, after all.

## Six Keys to Peace in Relationships

We all do foolish things - wisdom doesn't fix it, but it sure does help.
Our natural tendency in a relationship is almost always incorrect.
Whenever you find disorder or disharmony, there's ego.
Wisdom from heaven is pure, gentle, and sincere - it's a way of relating, not knowledge.
How we usually relate to people is foolish, but through wisdom, peace can be had.

#### 1: Wisdom from heaven is pure.
The foundation of all good relationships is integrity.
All relationships are built on trust, which are built on truth.
You need honestly - without it you have no relationship.
You lie to yourself more than anyone else, for the heart is deceitful.

#### 2: Wisdom is peace loving.
Wise people are not looking for a fight, nor do they antagonize others - they don't push their buttons intentionally.
Doing so doesn't help anything.
We all use counterproductive tools in relationships:

1. Comparing - It'll always make them mad, it's not wise.
2. Condemning - If you try to make them ashamed, you should be ashamed.
Don't try to play God for someone else.
1. Correcting - Don't sweat the small stuff.
Wisdom is the art of knowing what to overlook.
When you get angry you do unwise things.

#### 3: If you want to be wise, be considerate, don't minimize their feelings.
Don't call names, be rude, slur, or try to get even - wise people are considerate.
Reacting to what they say, and not how they feel is a mistake - people feel what they feel, but don't say what they mean.
To be considerate is to be mindful of the feelings of others.
If someone is rude and unkind, they're telling the world they're hurting.
Don't ever try to argue over feelings, only facts can be argued over.
If we invalidate other people's feelings, we minimize them.
Try asking what's going into the feeling, because that's what's important.
Feelings are neither right nor wrong, they're just there.

#### 4: Wisdom is willing to yield to others.
It means you're not stubborn and defensive, that you're listening more, speaking less.
Let people speak and say their entire piece, don't cut them off, be willing to listen and learn.
You'll know you're reasonable if you listen to others.
Check if people who you disagree with you can reason with you.
We're oversensitive, and it's hard to listen to honest opinions - don't criticize suggestions, instead learn from anybody, even if they're wrong on everything else.
Intelligent people are willing to listen, so don't prove ideas as stupid, move on to the next good idea.
Wisdom is full of mercy, you must show grace when others fail - fools are judgmental after all.
Give people the benefit of the doubt, cut them slack as you want them to do for you.
God doesn't give you what you deserve, He gives you what you need - wise people do this also.

#### 5: I won't emphasize your mistakes.
Wise people don't rub it in, they don't let resentment pile up.
Wisdom is full of mercy and good deeds.
Let go of the things that bug you about people, even with the people closest in your life.
You're not God, so don't try to change people.

#### 6: Wise people are sincere.
They are not hypocritical, they are impartial and sincere - they are authentic.
I wise person will not disguise their intentions, won't fake it, won't lie, cheat, or mislead.
What you see is what you get - if they're honest, real, and wise, they won't disguise anything.

If someone compromises another person's integrity, push their buttons, or rub it in, they'll never be satisfied, and never have a soul satisfying relationship with God.
One can get intelligence, skills, information, but not wisdom from school.
The Bible is filled with relational wisdom - respect for that Lord is the beginning of all wisdom.

# Questions (Videos)

## What stood out to you as new/unique?

I found it new to me how he said you can't argue about emotions - prior to this I might have said emotions can be wrong or unreasonable.
It seems obvious now, of course, that this is not true, and that emotions cannot be invalidated, only facts.

## What stood out to as you already knew it, but you often don't do it?

I struggle with not judging other people's emotions - I find it too easy to find their fears unreasonable, even though I know I am not being fair.

## What stood out to you as questionable, or you might disagree with it?

Nothing seemed especially questionable, it appeared to be reasonable.
I did wonder, however, how the speaker's mention of a plan for financial prosperity should be taken - God does not prevent bad things from happening to us.
In many ways, He puts us through things He knows we can handle.

## What key point(s) or action(s) would make the most positive impact on your leadership (or interpersonal effectiveness) if implemented it?

I believe listening fully, not invalidating emotions, and admitting my own fault are things that would best serve me in leadership roles, especially as it relates to winning people over.

## Express a personal thought not in the list above.

These videos have come at a very pertinent time in my life, with some social issues and decisions I'm dealing currently being very much related to conflict.
It's been a good reminder of what I ought to do, even when I don't want to.