PRN, Spreading Code, Ranging Code - all the same thing.

$\hat{\tau}_s$: Estimate of the start time of the the current repetition of the PRN sequence.
"memory code"

$$
\operatorname{mod}\left( \operatorname{floor} \left( \frac{t-\hat{\tau}_s}{T_c} \right), N_c \right)
$$

There is a wrinkle in time: Doppler messes with this somewhat (satellite is somewhat closer on next bit, for example)

You can take the doppler effect and scale the equation, Dr. Green cannot remember - **maybe** something like $\left( 1 + \frac{\hat{f}_d}{f_c} \right)\left( \frac{t - \hat{\tau}_s}{T_c} \right)$, but don't quote him on that. **Look this up!**

We need estimates of the current time ($\hat{\tau}_s$), and your doppler estimate ($\hat{f}_d$)

**Phaser**: You want to represent a number using a real component and an imaginary component.

$$
e^{j\theta} = \cos{\theta} + j \sin{\theta}
$$

Phaser has an angle of $\theta$. $\cos{\theta}$ is the real component, $\cos{\theta}$ is the imaginary component.

Say:
$$
\theta = 2\pi f \cdot t + \theta_0
$$

then:

$$
\cos{\left( 2\pi f t + \theta_0 \right)} + i \sin{\left( 2 \pi f t + \theta_0 \right)}
$$

$$
\cos{\left(2\pi f_c t + \theta(t) \right)}
$$

$$
\theta(t) = \theta_0 + \int_{t_0}^t{2\pi f_d(\tau) d\tau}
$$

Assume:

$$
f_d(\tau) = f_d
$$

$$
\theta(t) = \theta_0 + 2\pi f_d (t-t_0)
$$

***

Now we've got our phasers, so we're going to... something with replicas and multiplication.

**HATS GO ON ESTIMATES**

We have:

$$
\cos{\left( 2\pi f_e t + \left( \theta_0 + 2\pi f_d (t-t_0) \right) \right) } + \left[ \cos{\left( 2\pi f_c t + \left( \hat{\theta}_0 + 2 \pi \hat{f}_d (t-t_0) \right) \right)} + j \sin{\left( 2 \pi f_c t + \left(\hat{\theta}_0 +2\pi \hat{f}_d(t-t_0)\right) \right)}\right]
$$

I gave up here.
