# Problem Statement

For a polymer-matrix fiber-reinforced composite

(a) List three functions of the matrix phase.
(b) Compare the desired mechanical characteristics of matrix and fiber
    phases.
(c) Cite two reasons why there must be a strong bond between fiber and
    matrix at their interface.

# Solution

a.  The matrix phase:

    1.  Binds fibers together distributes an external load to the
        fibers; only a very small proportion of an applied load is
        sustained by the matrix phase. Furthermore, the matrix material
        should be ductile. In addition, the elastic modulus of the fiber
        should be much higher than that of the matrix.
    2.  The second function of the matrix is to protect the individual
        fibers from surface damage as a result of mechanical abrasion or
        chemical reactions with the environment. Such interactions may
        introduce surface flaws capable of forming cracks, which may
        lead to failure at low tensile stress levels.
    3.  The matrix *separates* the fibers and prevents crack
        propagation. This ensures that even if any individual fibers
        break, it does not cause the rest of the fibers to immediately
        fail.

b.  The *elastic modulus* of the fiber should be much greater than that
    of the matrix phase.

c.  A string bond between the fiber and matrix must be made in order to
    prevent **pullout** of fibers. The stronger this bond, the greater
    the ultimate strength of the material, as stress is transmitted from
    weak matrix to strong fibers.
