Do business firms operating in competitive markets have a strong
incentive to serve the interest of consumers? Are they motivated by a
strong desire to help consumers? Are "good intentions" necessary if
individuals are going to engage in actions that are helpful to others?
Discuss.

# Answer

Business firms operating in competitive markets do indeed have a strong
incentive to serve the interests of customers, as this is how they may
attract more clients, or establish a more dedicated clientele that may
pay a premium for their products. However, they are not necessarily
motivated by any pretense of caring ("good intentions"), only that doing
things to help consumers is a good way to do business in the long run.
This is not to say that people running businesses cannot care and make
decisions accordingly - business owners and operators are just as
capable of caring as anyone else - but it is not especially profitable
to develop a business model that requires emotional sensitivity. Good
intentions are not necessary in order to be helpful to others, so long
as helping others also fulfils a goal or requirement of your own. For
example, business owners might make an effort to outsource work to a
friend who is able to do it - it provides them work, while giving the
intermediate business a chance to work on other more pressing or
profitable work. The outsourced worker is still glad to have the job
(perhaps they are not equipped to do the full job), the the intermediate
business still makes money without undue stress.
