# Dead Reckoning Correction

# GPS

* Multilateration
* One-way Range
* Satellite Position/Clock
* 
Common radionavigation method is that signal contains features at known times - has time and characteristics that are well defined.

Signal will depart at a known time, and arrive at a receiver at a known time.

So:

$$
t_{\text{ToF}} = t_{\text{Rx}} - t_{\text{Tx}}
$$

$$
\rho = c \cdot t_{\text{ToF}} \leftarrow \text{How we compute it}
$$

$$
\rho = r + \delta b_{\text{Rx}} + \delta b_{\text{SV}} + \epsilon \leftarrow \text{How we model it}
$$

where $\epsilon$ is the rest of the error term (lumped together).

also,

$$
r = \vert \vert \underline{r}_{\text{Rx}} - \underline{r}_\text{SV} \vert \vert
$$

Position and clock come from **Almanac** and **Ephemeris**

The $\delta$ values are clock biases.

# Transit

* Doppler Positioning
* Doppler Shift
* Satellite Orbit/Clock

If a satellite has a known timetable and frequency, you can tell how far away you are from it by observing the rate of doppler shift.
You can do a curve fit over an extended observation interval to find the parameters, but the position estimate will be old by the time the period is done.

# DME

* Multilateration
* Two-way Ranging

# NDB

# Radar

# VOR

VHF Omnidirectional Radar

* Range/Bearing

# TACAN

In Navy, secondary radar system.

* Range/Bearing

Transponder system, encoded in it the angle it was sent out.

***

# WiFi

* Power Mapping
* Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI)
  * Coarse mapping of power of received signal
* Database of AP Locations and Power

They may stack this on map matching.

OFDM - Orthogonal Frequency D... Modulation

# WiFi 6 / BLE

* Multilateration
* Two-way ranging, also with power map
* Database of AP Loc/Powers

Driving factor is location based advertising

# UWB

Pulse position encoding for data - time at which pulse is sent corresponds to data.

Short in time = Wide in frequency.

For example, speed-bump on road vs slow hill - damping is much harder for sudden change.

***

For DME - UWB, they all require Transmitter Position

# Celestial Navigation

* Triangulation
* Azimuth/Elevation of Celestial Bodies
* Almanac + Time

We have a map of where stars should be at a given time.
To find where we are, we observe the angles of these features relative to north, and relative to the horizon.

If we use the space station and satellites instead of stars, you can get multiple independent observations rapidly.

During the day, we obscure the sun.

# Terrain Matching

* Feature Mapping
* Terrain Altitude
* Terrain Database

DTED

Database Terrain ...

Tells you altitude of terrain relative to WGS ellipsoid.

If you fly a trajectory that can observe a terrain profile (that isn't flat...), you can feature map to match to a database.

This database is very accurate.

Can also be sea floor.

# Map Matching

* Feature Mapping
* Various schemes

# Camera

* Pixel of Features

# Stereo Camera

Uses matched pixels

# LIDAR

ToF.

A ton of small field of view cameras that measure range directly.

For given snapshot, gives point-cloud.

# RADAR

***

Camera - RADAR:
* Database of Features (SLAM)
* SIRF/SIFT - Feature Extracting and Matching

# NavSOp

Navigation using Signal of Opportunity.

