Last time - how we measure, it. Started into how to model it.

Today, more on how we model it.

***

# Pseudoranges

1. How we measure
2. How we model

Want to understand:

* Ionosphere
* Troposphere
* Multipath

***

* Ionosphere: Charged particles and Free Electrons
  * Group Delay &  Phase Advance
  * Scintillation

***

# Ionosphere

Top layer, very thick in terms of distance.

Consists of a lot of charge particle and free electrons.

These free electrons affects the propagation of electromagnetic waves.

We shall look at group delay and phase advance.

## Frequency Dependent Refraction

$$
n_{\phi} \approx 1 - \frac{40.3 n_e}{f^2}
$$

Less than unity.

Phase velocity higher than the speed of light,

## Group Delay

$\rho$: Increases the apparent range by slowing the propagation through the ionosphere.

The pseudorange experiences group delay.

Aka code phase

## Carrier Phase

$\phi$: Phase advance, which is caused by the frequency dependent index of refractivity.

***

Takeaways:

1. The effects of pseudorange and carrier phase ($\rho$ and $\phi$) have equal and opposite effects
2. Effects are approximately inversely proportional to the square of frequency
3. Effects are proportional to the total electron content along the path of propagation.
   1. Density of free electrons
   2. Total path length

## Scintillation

Spatial Variations in density -> Optical variations in index of refraction.
Rapid changes in apparent signal strength due to interference of signals from multiple paths.

## Ionosphere Obliquity Factor

Maps zenith ionospheric delay for lower elevation angles

Important for modeling residual ionospheric error

$$
i(\theta) = \frac{i(\theta = 90^\circ)}{\sqrt{1 + \left( \frac{R_e \cos(\theta)}{R_e + h_I} \right)^2}}
$$

Varies from 1 (zenith) to approximately 3 (5 deg elevation)

## Tropospheric Effects

### Model

Integrate refractivity along a vertical path to obtain zenith delay

Map to lower elevation angles using path integrals

#### Saastamoinen

* Includes mapping function

* Decimeter level errors for low elevation angles

#### Hopfield

* Based on an extensive worldwide empirical study

* Zenith delay accuracy:
  * A few millimeters (dry) with pressure measurements
  * 10 to 20 mm (wet) with actual surface meteorological data

#### Hopfield mapping functions

Simple model uses dry and wet angle...

# Code Multipath

$t_{Tof} = t_{Rx} - t_{Tx}$

Correlation of our local replica w/ received signal.

Auto correlation Function

Early, Prompt, & Late Correlators

Delay Locked Loop

Early-minus-Late Discriminator

Drive the prompt correlator tot he top of the peak.

* Using correlation to measure time of reception
* Determine that time using our early and late correlator taps
* Ideally, those results should be equal
* Reflected signals distort the ideal auto correlation function
* This leads to a bias int he estimate of $t_{Rx}$

