# Math Review

## Rotation Matrices

## Kinematics

Sensing: $\underline{f}_{IB}^B$, $\underline{\omega}_{IB}^B$

For most nav systems, the reference frame is the earth.
We numerically integrate attitude, velocity, acceleration into a top level position vector, $\underline{r}_{EB}^\gamma$, where $\gamma$ is one of the following:

1. $I$: Inertial
2. $E$: Earth Centered Earth Fixed
3. $N$: For NED (North East Down)
4. $W$: For Wander-Azimuth

## Vectors

### Dot Product

### Vector Projection

Related to dot product

If we have two vectors $u$ and $v$, then the projection of $u$ onto $v$ is:

$$
\operatorname{proj}_{\underline{v}} (\underline{u}) = \left( \frac{\underline{u}\cdot\underline{v}}{\underline{v}\cdot\underline{v}}\right) \cdot \underline{v}
$$

for unit vectors $\underline{e}_1$, $\underline{e}_2$

$$
\operatorname{proj}_{\underline{e_2}} (\underline{e_1}) = \left( \underline{e}_1 \cdot \underline{e}_2 \right) \cdot \underline{e}_2
$$

$$
\underline{u} \times \underline{v} = \underline{w} \rightarrow ||\underline{w}|| = ||\underline{u}|| \cdot ||\underline{v}|| \sin{\alpha}
$$

where $\alpha$ is the in plane angle between $\underline{u}$ and $\underline{v}$

TODO: Fill this gap

### Right Handed Coordinates

Set of 3 vectors that are mutually orthogonal, that are also unit vectors.
These form an orthonormal basis to express any vector in the vector space as a weighted sum of the basis vectors.

$$
\left\{ \underline{e}_1, \underline{e}_2, \underline{e}_3 \right\}
$$

$$
\underline{e}_3 = \underline{e}_1 \times \underline{e}_2
$$

$$
\underline{v} = v_1 \underline{e}_1 + v_2 \underline{e}_2 + v_3 \underline{e}_3
$$

TODO: Fill this gap

### Change Of Basis

How we go from one set of vectors to another set?

TODO: Pull this diagram from teams

$$
\underline{v} = v_1^e\underline{e}_1 + v_2^e \underline{e}_2 + v_3^e \underline{e}_3
$$

$$
\underline{v} = v_1^N\underline{N}_1 + v_2^N \underline{N}_2 + v_3^N \underline{N}_3
$$

$$
\underline{N}_i = \sum_{i=1}^3{\operatorname{proj}_{\underline{e}_i} \left( N_i \right)}
$$

$$
\underline{N}_i = \sum_{i=1}^3{\left( N_i \cdot \underline{e}_i\right) \underline{e}_i}
$$

$$
\underline{N}_i^e = \begin{bmatrix}
    N_i \cdot \underline{e}
\end{bmatrix}
$$

Complete this^

TODO: Fill this gap

### Notation

1. Frame being described
2. Reference frame
3. Resolving frame (set of coordinates to express the vector)

$$
\underline{V}_{(\text{Reference})(\text{Primary})}^{(\text{Resolving})}
$$

for example:

$$
\underline{V}_{\beta \alpha}^\gamma = C_\beta^\gamma \underline{v}_{\beta \gamma}^\beta
$$

To take a time derivative normally, the reference and resolving frames must be the same.

$$
\frac{d}{dt} \left( \underline{v}_{\beta \alpha}^\gamma \right) = \underline{\dot{v}}_{\beta \alpha}^\gamma = \dot{C}_\beta^\gamma \underline{v}_{\beta \alpha}^\beta + C_\beta^\gamma \underline{\dot{v}}_{\beta \alpha}^\beta
$$

How do we take derivatives of rotation matrices?

### Euler Angles

They represent this transformation as a series of three transformations.
In Aero, this is yaw, pitch, and roll / roll, pitch, and yaw.

TODO: Look at and understand this from video, it's a lot of diagrams.

